<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 24</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIV</span></h2>
			<h3>Barbara’s First Lesson in the Manège</h3>
			<p>For some few months after the events just described, the lives of those who form the characters of this little drama passed evenly on without the occurrence of any circumstance worthy of special record on the part of their historian. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford, implicitly following <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel’s advice, proceeded to lay siege to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder in the manner agreed upon, and found his advances received very much after the fashion predicted by his astute friend. In all childlike simplicity <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder firmly believed in the baneful influence which she had unconsciously exercised over her admirer, and strove to make him amends by a charitable and sentimental pity. She could perfectly appreciate all his feelings; for was not she herself misunderstood? had her girlhood’s dream been realised? what was wealth, what was position, to her? was she not mated with one who, <abbr>etc.</abbr>? So she not merely permitted but encouraged <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford’s fraternal sentiments; though she by no means eschewed the world and its frivolity, and gave herself up to solitary romance. On the contrary, she went out a great deal into society, and had frequent receptions at home; Beresford being her constant but always unobtrusive companion. It is difficult to say what motive about this time prompted a considerable change in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Schröder’s manner towards his wife; but some such change undoubtedly took place. It may possibly have been that the insufficiency of money as a source of happiness may have dawned upon him, steeped as he was to his very lips in constantly-increasing wealth. It may have been that he suddenly awoke to the fact that he was expected to lavish something more than generosity on the young girl whom he had made the head of his house, and who, as he thought, conducted herself with so much propriety. This new feeling may have had its germ one night when they were sitting in their grand-tier box at the Italian Opera, during the performance of <i>Der Freischütz</i>; and as the old familiar strains rang through the house, Gustav Schröder’s memory travelled back for five-and-thirty years, and he saw himself a lad of seventeen, seated in the pit of a little German theatre by the side of a plump little girl, who wore a silver arrow through the great knot of her flaxen hair, and down whose cheeks tears were rolling as she listened to the recital of Agatha’s woes. He had loved that plump little Kätchen, loved her with a boy’s pure and ardent passion; and when sent to his uncle’s countinghouse at Frankfort, they had parted with bitter tears, and with the exchange of very cheap and worthless love-tokens. He wondered what had become of that five-groschen piece with the hole drilled through it, and the bit of red ribbon. He wondered why he had never loved since those days. And then he looked up and saw his pretty, elegant little wife, whom everyone admired and praised; and it flashed upon him that he had never tried to break through the outer crust of staid formality with which business and the world had covered him; and he determined to try to love and be loved once more. And so <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder, beginning to be dreadfully frightened at the incantation scene, was astonished to find her hand gently taken in her husband’s, and on looking up to find his eyes fixed on hers. From that time out Gustav Schröder was a changed man; he took frequent holidays from business; he strove in every way to let his wife see how anxious he was for her happiness; and she saw it, and was to a certain extent touched by his conduct. It needed all <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford’s sophistry, all his attention and quotation, the employment of all the art in which he had been indoctrinated by his friend Simnel, to make head against the influence which Gustav Schröder’s quiet watchfulness and fatherly affection were attaining; for the affection was, after all, more fatherly than conjugal in its display. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Schröder was far too much a man of the world to affect to ignore his age or the result of his life-habits; and no one was better pleased than he to see his wife happy among younger and livelier companions.</p>
			<p>A happy influence properly exercised at this time would have been immediately beneficial to Alice Schröder, and have brought matters back into the right course. For instance, ten minutes’ walk with Barbara Churchill would have settled the question; for Barbara was to Alice that one grand idol whom we all of us (although we change them at different periods of our lives) set up and worship. And Barbara had not derogated one whit from her high position in Alice’s estimation by her marriage. It was exactly the thing that she imagined a girl of her friend’s high spirit would do, if pressed to it; there was something romantic in it, savouring of the legends of the high dames of old, who gave themselves to poets after scorning kings; and the whole process entirely agreed with certain of the <i>dicta</i> of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Owen Meredith, who, as has been explained, was poet-laureate at the Schröder court. And Alice called on Barbara, and petted her and praised her, and in her silly little way did everything possible to prevent the smallest <i>rapprochement</i> between them. And then Alice went away, and cried in the carriage on her way home, and declared that Barbara was cruel and unkind and unjust, and had utterly changed in everything.</p>
			<p>Were these assertions correct? I fear that at all events they had a certain proportion of truth. The spirit which had induced Barbara Lexden to marry a man without money, and of, as her friends thought, inferior position; which had made her scorn the threats of being cast off by those among whom her life had hitherto been placed, and to hold to one whom she knew but little, yet trusted much⁠—this same spirit made her brave the fate to which she had resigned herself, and determined that if she repined, it should be in secret and unheard. It <i>was</i> a mistake; <i>that</i> she had already confessed to herself with bitter tears many and many a time; done in haste, repented at leisure⁠—the old, old story, the old seductive myth, which will find believers forever and aye. How often, brooding in the solitude of her chamber, had she gone over the whole business in her mind, linking bit to bit, and endeavouring to find out where the reality had fallen short of the anticipation!</p>
			<p>They were poor. Well! had she not expected poverty; had not Frank told her plainly and honourably of his position before he made any declaration? Yes; but she did not understand poverty exactly as she had found it. She knew that they would not be able to give parties, nor to go to the Opera, nor that kind of thing; but she certainly thought that they would go out sometimes, and that she should not be stuck at home forever. Of course the people who gave parties had a great deal of expense; but those who went to them had none; and it was not expected that any newly-married people living in a small way should entertain in return. But then Frank, after positively refusing to go out a third night running, had given way; but had shaken his head, and looked so serious over a glove-bill which he happened to see on her dressing-table, that she threw on her dressing-gown, and bade him go by himself. She did not care about going out; but if she went, she would be decent; she had always been considered to have a reputation for good taste, and nothing on earth should make her a dowdy now. She would sooner stay at home always; indeed there was little enough to go out for, having to be jolted in those horrible cabs, that crawled along the streets, with no room for one’s dress, and with the certainty of being covered with dust or straw, or some dreadful stuff, when you got out; and then the insolence of the driver!</p>
			<p>And her home? It was small, and dull, and dreary; but had she been led to anticipate anything else? No; she supposed not. And yet she wore herself out in those gaunt dark rooms, and chafed in her prison like a bird in its cage. She had always been a bad correspondent, and since her marriage had scarcely written any letters at all; but she would sit mooning over the pages of a novel, or over the stitches of her embroidery, until book or work would fall from her hand; and there she would remain, looking intently at nothing, staring vacantly before her. Frank caused her to be supplied regularly with a copy of the <i>Statesman</i>, and in it she tried to read his articles⁠—an honest attempt in which she dismally failed. Her aunt had been somewhat of a keen politician, and Barbara was sufficiently well informed on the position of English parties to bear her share in a dinner-table dialogue; but foreign affairs principally occupied Frank’s pen in the <i>Statesman</i>; and after an attempted course of reading about Moldo-Wallachia, Schleswig-Holstein, and the Principalities, including an immense amount of virtuous indignation, the reason for which she did not comprehend, and the object of which she could not make out, poor Barbara gave it up in despair. She was in the habit of glancing occasionally at that portion of the paper in which <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Henchman chronicled the doings of the fashionable world, and recorded the names of those present at great entertainments; and sometimes when Barbara would raise her eyes from the paper and look down the hot vista of frowning houses in Great Adullam Street, where dust and straw were blowing in a penetrating cloud, and whence the dismal howling of itinerant hucksters fell upon the ear, she, remembering what part she had recently played among those of whom she had been reading, and contrasting it with her then life, would bite her lip until the blood started, and sob bitterly.</p>
			<p>Where was her spirit, do you ask? Has she not been represented as a girl of special spirit and pluck? Did not the early-narrated incidents of her career, her very marriage, prove this? and is it natural that she should break down before petty annoyances such as these? These questions have been asked; and all I can reply is, that I paint according to my lights and to my experience of life; and I believe that there are hundreds of women of spirit who would bear the amputation of a finger with more fortitude than the non-arrival of a bonnet, and who suffer less in separation from those they dearly love than in the necessity for a daily inspection of the bread-pan.</p>
			<p>And Frank, what of him? Had Barbara been deceived in him? had she misjudged his heart, his truth, his love? Not one whit; and yet how different he seemed! Throughout his life, Frank Churchill had acted on impulse, and had generally pulled through with extraordinary success. We have seen how, in the railway-journey back to Bissett, he had argued with himself, had persuaded himself into the determination of leaving the place and flying from temptation, and how on the impulse of a moment he settled the career of his life. To say he had repented of that step, would have been untrue; equally false would it have been to say that he had not been seriously disappointed in its result. The great charm of Barbara Lexden in his eyes had been her dissimilarity from other women. In the quiet circles in which he moved, there was no one kin to her; she stood out in bold relief among the fussy wives and meek colourless daughters of his friends, seeming a being of another sphere. And now, strange to say, this very contrast which had so captivated him, was his bane. What though the wives were fussy; they attended to their households with the utmost regularity, investigating the smallest matters of domestic detail, keeping down expenses here, making shift there, and having a comfortable home ready for their husbands wearied out with their work. What though the daughters were meek and colourless, without a fragment of taste in dress, without a spark of spirit, without one atom of dash; they were ready to strum the piano, or to play endless games of whist or picquet, when called upon, to enjoy thoroughly such little society as they had among themselves, and, in fact, to make themselves generally amiable. “Their girls did not lollop on the sofa and read trashy novels all day tong, my dear!” as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Harding more than once remarked; “they were not aristocrats, and couldn’t jabber Italian; but they didn’t lie in bed to breakfast, or be always fiddling with their hair, or dressing or undressing themselves twenty times a day. If those were aristocratic manners, the less she had of them the better.”</p>
			<p>All this talk, and there was much of it perpetually current, reached Frank Churchill’s ears through his mother, and if it did not render him actually unhappy, at least dashed his spirits and checked his joys. He would sit for hours pondering over these things, thinking of his past, when he had only himself and his old mother to care for, wondering what would have been his future, supposing he had married one of the daughters of Mesopotamia, and settled down into the snug humdrum life pursued by those colonists. And then sometimes Barbara would break in upon his reverie, and, looking so brilliantly handsome, would come up and kiss his forehead, and say a few loving words untinged by regret or complaint; and he would rejoice in the choice he had made, and thank that fortune which had thrown such a treasure in his way.</p>
			<p>There is no doubt that, without in the least degree intending it (indeed, what sacrifice had she not made, would she not make, for her son?), old <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill was a fruitful cause of the petty dissensions which took place between Barbara and her husband. Devoted to Frank, to her natural anxiety for his happiness was superadded an invincible jealousy of the woman who had supplanted his mother in his regard, or at least had pushed her from the highest position therein. Against the actuations of this feeling the old lady strove with all her strength, and made great way; but, like many other intending victors, she imagined the day gained before the enemy had been thoroughly repulsed, and then, neglecting her outposts, laid herself open to an irresistible attack. At first Frank laughed away all these remarks, telling his mother that the difference of age between her and Barbara, the difference of their lives and bringing up, the difference in the style of the present time and the days when <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill lived in the world, caused her to think the young wife’s proceedings singular, and her demeanour odd. But <i>saepe cadendo</i>, by constant trituration the old lady’s notions got grafted into his brain, and most of the weary self-communings and self-torturings which Frank had, sprung from his mother’s unintentional planting.</p>
			<p>One day about noon old <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill knocked at the door of Frank’s little study, and entering found her son hard at work on an article he was preparing for a review. The old lady seemed in great spirits, kissed her son most affectionately, and said: “Busy as ever, Frank my darling? As I often used to say, you’ll grow to your desk one day, you stick at it so⁠—at least you used to when I lived with you; I don’t know much of what you do now;” and she gave a little sigh, made doubly apparent by an attempt to stifle it, as she sat down.</p>
			<p>“Why, mum, what nonsense!” said Frank; “you see as much of me as anybody now⁠—as much as Barbara, at all events.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, by the way, how is Barbara?”</p>
			<p>“Well, not very brilliant this morning; she’s got one of her headaches, and I persuaded her to breakfast in bed.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, she didn’t take much persuading, I fancy. The young girls nowadays are very different from what I remember them; but she’d be tired, poor child, waiting up for you last night.”</p>
			<p>“She did no such thing, I’m delighted to say,” said Frank, smiling, “as I had to write upon the result of the debate, and didn’t get home until nearly three o’clock. Poor Barbara was sound asleep at that time, and had been so for some hours.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, ever since her visitor went away, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Her visitor? What visitor?”</p>
			<p>“Didn’t she tell you? How odd! I called in last evening for a volume of <i> Blunt on the Pentateuch</i>, and found Captain Lyster here chatting. How odd that Barbara didn’t mention it!”</p>
			<p>“She was too sleepy both last night and this morning, I imagine,” said Frank: “she has frequently told me of his visits.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, he calls here very often.”</p>
			<p>“He’s a very pleasant fellow,” said Frank.</p>
			<p>“Is he?” said the old lady, in rather acrid tones. “I didn’t think you knew him.”</p>
			<p>“Not know him!” exclaimed Frank; “why, mother dear, how on earth should he call here if I didn’t know him?”</p>
			<p>“He might be a friend of your wife’s, my dear.”</p>
			<p>“But my wife’s friends are mine, are they not?”</p>
			<p>“It does not always follow, Frank,” said the old lady calmly; “besides, I thought if he had been a friend of yours, he would have called <i>sometimes</i> when you were at home.”</p>
			<p>Frank looked up quickly with a flushed face; then said, “What nonsense, mum! the man is an old friend of Barbara’s, and comes at such times as are most convenient to himself. You don’t understand the set of people he lives with, mum.”</p>
			<p>“Very likely not, my dear; and I’m sure I’m not sorry for it; for they seem strange enough; at least to a quiet old-fashioned body like myself, who was taught never to receive male friends when my husband⁠—however, that’s neither here nor there.” And <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill bustled out.</p>
			<p>When Barbara came down to luncheon, Frank said to her, “I hear you had Captain Lyster here, last night, Barbara.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes,” she replied, “I forgot to tell you; he sat here some time.”</p>
			<p>“He comes pretty frequently, doesn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” said Barbara, looking up; “I never counted the number of times; you always hear when he has been.”</p>
			<p>“I wish you’d do something for me, Barbara,” said Frank.</p>
			<p>“Well, what is it?”</p>
			<p>“Just tell Lyster it would be better if he could contrive to call when I’m at home.”</p>
			<p>“Why?” asked Barbara pointedly.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—well⁠—upon my word⁠—I scarcely know why⁠—except that people talk, you know; and it’s better⁠—eh? don’t you think?” stammered Frank. He had acted on impulse again, and felt confoundedly ashamed of himself.</p>
			<p>“I distinctly decline to do anything of the sort. I wonder Frank, you’re not ashamed to propose such a thing to me; but I can see what influence has been at work.”</p>
			<p>“There has been no influence at all; only I choose⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And <i>I</i> choose that you should find a fitter person than your wife to deliver insulting messages to your friends!”</p>
			<p>“Barbara suppose I were to insist upon your not receiving this man again?”</p>
			<p>“You had better not, Frank,” said she, moving towards the door; “you don’t know whom you have to deal with.” And she swept out of the room.</p>
			<p>And this was Barbara’s first lesson in the <i>manège</i>.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
