<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 27</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXVII</span></h2>
			<h3>Weaving the Web</h3>
			<p>In his well-deserved character of prudent campaigner, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel took no immediate steps to avail himself of the signal advantage which he had gained in his interview with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Townshend. That eminent British merchant went abroad, and his name was recorded among a choice sprinkling of fashionables as honouring the steamship <i>Baron Osy</i>, bound for Antwerp, with their presence, and, on the “better-day-better-deed” principle, selecting the Sunday as the day of their departure. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel read the paragraph with a placid smile; he had seen sufficient of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Townshend in that interview to guess that his illness was merely the result of care and worry, and that there was no reason to apprehend his proximate death. Antwerp⁠—doubtless thence Brussels, the Rhine, and perhaps Switzerland⁠—would make a pleasant tour; and as for any idea of escape, he knew well enough that that thought had never crossed <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Townshend’s mind. The old gentleman knew he would have to pay the possessor of his secret heavily in one way or another, but in what he was as yet totally ignorant; besides, his business engagements in London utterly prevented all chance of his retiring in any sudden manner. And so <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel remained quietly at his post at the Tin-Tax Office, apparently not taking any notice of anything save the regular business routine, but in reality intent on his earnest cat-like watching of all around him, and always ready to pull any string at what he considered the proper opportunity.</p>
			<p>He kept his eyes on <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford, and knit his eyebrows very much as he contemplated that gentleman’s proceedings. Whether prompted by anxiety for the fate of his eight-hundred pounds loan or by some other occult reason, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel had been specially watchful over the Commissioner, and urged upon him to bring the speculation in which he had embarked to a prosperous close. With this view he had dissuaded Beresford from going to Scotland, whither, as usual, he was bound on his autumnal excursion; representing to him that he had of late been very lax in his attendance; that he had had much more leave of absence than any of his brother commissioners; that Sir Hickory Maddox had once or twice referred to the subject in anything but a complimentary manner; and that the best thing he could do to stave off an impending row would be to volunteer to stop in town, and let the other members of the board have a chance of running away in the fine weather. At this suggestion <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford looked very black and waxed very wroth, and couldn’t see why the deuce, and on his oath couldn’t tell the necessity, <abbr>etc.</abbr>; but relented somewhat when his friend pointed out to him that there was no necessity for his attending more than twice a week at the office, just to sign such papers as were pressing; and that instead of remaining in his South-Audley-Street lodgings, he could go out and take rooms at a beautiful little inn in the village of Whittington, where there was a glorious cook, a capital cellar, beautiful air, splendid prospect, and above all, which was twenty minutes’ canter from the Uplands, Schröder’s summer place. To this plan <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford consented; and after asking for a further loan of fifty, and getting five-and-twenty, from Simnel, Beresford and his mare Gulnare were domesticated at the Holly Bush, and he prepared to make play.</p>
			<p>But somehow the state of affairs did not please <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel. One day, when he and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder were Beresford’s guests, he seemed specially annoyed; and on the next occasion of his friend’s visiting the office, he took the opportunity of speaking to him.</p>
			<p>“I want to say a word to you, Master Charles,” said he, entering the boardroom and addressing Beresford, who was stretched on the sofa reading the <i>Post</i>, and envying the sportsmen whose bags were recorded therein. “I want to know how you’re getting on.”</p>
			<p>“Getting on! in what way?” asked Beresford, putting down the paper and lazily looking round; “as regards money, do you mean? because, if so, I could take that other five-and-twenty from you with a great amount of satisfaction.”</p>
			<p>“You’re very good,” said Simnel, with a sardonic grin; “but I’d rather not. I’m afraid you’ve been trying some of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Franklin’s experiments with kites again recently; at all events, I’ve seen several letters addressed to you in Parkinson’s⁠—of Thavies Inn, I mean⁠—handwriting; which looks anything but healthy. However, I didn’t mean that; I meant in the other business⁠—the great venture.”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said Beresford, “that’s all right.”</p>
			<p>“I’m glad to hear it. Satisfactory, and all that sort of thing, eh?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly. Why do you ask?”</p>
			<p>“Well, to tell you the truth,” said Simnel, with that kind of honest bluntness, that inexpressible frankness, generally assumed by a man who is going to say something disagreeable, “I had an idea that it was quite the opposite. When we dined with you the other day⁠—deuced good dinner it was too; I was right to recommend you there, wasn’t I? I haven’t tasted such spitchcocked eels for years; and that man’s moselle has a finer faint flavour of the muscat than any I know in England⁠—when we dined with you, as I say, I fancied things were all wrong with the lady. I talked to the old boy, as in duty bound, and listened to all his platitudes about the influence of money⁠—as though I didn’t know about that, good lord! But the whole time I was listening, and chiming in here and there with such interjections as I thought appropriate, I kept my eye on you and madam; and from what I saw, I judged it wasn’t all plain-sailing. I was right; wasn’t I?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford, between his teeth, “you were, and that’s the truth. We’ve come to grief somehow; but how, I can hardly tell. It was going on splendidly; I had followed all your instructions to the letter, and, in fact, I was thoroughly accepted as her brother, when she suddenly veered round; and though I can’t say she’s been unkind, yet she has lost all that warmth that so pleasantly characterised her regard; and now, I think, rather avoids me than otherwise.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve not overdone it, have you? Not been lapsing into your old style of flirtation, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No; on my honour, no. I rather think some of her friends have been putting the moral screw on. You recollect a Miss Lexden⁠—<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill that is now?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly! But <i>she</i> would not be likely to object to a flirtation.”</p>
			<p>“Not as mademoiselle, but as madame she has rangéed herself, and I believe her husband is a straightlaced party. She was up at Uplands for a couple of days, and rather snubbed me when I presented myself there in my fraternal character. I’ve been putting things together in my mind, and I begin to think that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder’s coldness dated from <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill’s visit.”</p>
			<p>“Likely enough. I daresay <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill goes in tremendously now for all the domestic virtues. If a reformed rake makes the best husband, a penitent flirt ought to make the best wife; and, by all accounts, Miss Barbara Lexden was a queen of the art. I hear that she and her husband lead a perpetually billing-and-cooing existence, like a pair of genteelly-poor turtles, in some dovecot near Gray’s Inn.”</p>
			<p>“That man Lyster’s been a good deal to the house lately, too. I always hated that fellow, and I know he hates me; he looks at me sometimes as though he could eat me. Schröder seems to have taken a fancy to him; and I sometimes half fancy that he has a kind of spoony attachment to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder⁠—if you recollect, I told you I thought he was after her when we were all down at Bissett⁠—though I don’t think very much of that. I’ll tell you what it is, Simnel,” continued <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford, in a burst of confidence, straggling up into a sitting position on the sofa, and beating his legs with the folded newspaper as he spoke, “I’m getting devilish sick of all this dodging and duffing, and I’ve been thinking seriously of calling my creditors together, getting them to take so much a-year, and then going in quietly and marrying Kate Mellon after all.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel’s face flushed but for an instant; it was its normal colour when he said,</p>
			<p>“You’re mad! You, with the ball at your foot, to think of such a course! So much a-year, indeed! Butchers and bakers do that sort of thing, I believe, when they’ve been let in; but not forty-per-cent men; not money-lending insurance-offices. Breathe a hint of your state, and they’d be down upon you at once, and sell you up like old sticks. Besides, you couldn’t come to any arrangement with your creditors without its leaking out somehow. It would get into those infernal trade-circulars, or protection-gazettes, or whatever they’re called; and if the Bishop or Lady Lowndes heard of it, all your chances of inheriting in either of those quarters would be blown to the winds. As to⁠—to Kate Mellon, you may judge how your alliance with her would please either of the august persons I have named.”</p>
			<p>“Jove! you’re right,” said Beresford, biting his nails.</p>
			<p>“Right, of course I am; and here you’ve only to wait, and an heiress⁠—a delightful little creature to boot⁠—is absolutely thrown into your arms. You’re a child, Charley, in some things⁠—you clever men always have a slate off somewhere, you know⁠—and in business you’re a positive child. Can’t you see that yours must be a waiting race?⁠—that you mustn’t mind being hustled, and bothered, and cramped, at the beginning, but must always keep your eyes open for your chance, and then make the running? The least impetuosity, such as you hint at, would throw away every hope, and destroy a very excellently planned scheme. Oh, you needn’t wince at the word; we are all schemers in love, as well as in everything else, if we only acknowledged it.”</p>
			<p>“Then you counsel my keeping on still, and endeavouring to regain my influence?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly; by all means. It will come back, never fear. And look here, Charley; don’t fall into that horribly common and vulgar error of abusing the people who are supposed to be thwarting your plans. Be specially kind, on the contrary, in all you say of them. This Captain Lyster, for instance, I should proclaim, if I were you, a thorough gentleman⁠—a prolix chevalier of a type now seldom seen⁠—a man evidently smothering an unhappy passion for⁠—for⁠—anybody but <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder. Wouldn’t the other one do? <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill, I mean.”</p>
			<p>“Do! What do you mean? There used certainly to be a flirtation between them at one time, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Quite enough. Only keep <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder from the notion that Lyster is spooning her; for that’s enough at once to turn her silly little thoughts to him. Speak kindly of everyone; and don’t show the smallest signs of weariness, depression, or discouragement.”</p>
			<p>When <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel returned to his own room, he settled himself down into his chair, and fell to nursing his leg and thinking, with the old sinister smile on his face.</p>
			<p>“He’s not the easiest fellow in the world to deal with⁠—Beresford! At least, he’d be difficult to some; but I think I’ve got him in hand. Wants everything to run slick off the reel at once, the idiot! As though any great coup had ever been pulled off, save by waiting, and watching, and patience. Marry Kate Mellon, indeed!” and here <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel’s fingers, intertwined across his knee, cracked as he pulled at them⁠—“marry Kate Mellon, and with such a damned air of patronage too! No, my young friend, never! You held a trump-card there, and you neglected to play it; and in my game there’s no revoking. I must see Kitty, and look how the land lies. I think I’ve stalled Master Charley off for some little time; and it’s no use bringing about an éclaircissement of the Schröder business; which Kitty would be safe to do as soon as she had any tangible proof. Then I should lose my eight hundred pounds in Charley Beresford’s general and helpless smash. But I’d sooner drop them than miss my chance of Kitty. Slippery, though⁠—slippery as the deuce!” and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel put his elbow on his knee, and his face into his hand, and sat plucking at his chin “hankers after Beresford, no doubt⁠—I think has a liking for that young Prescott; but that I’ll put a stop to today⁠—and I suppose only thanks me for my kindness. And yet I can put the finishing stroke to the whole thing in one moment; only want the one connecting-link and the story’s complete; and then I’ll take my oath she’ll have me. I’ll ride up there this afternoon, and just see how the land lies.”</p>
			<p>In accordance with this determination, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel that afternoon mounted his thoroughbred and cantered off to The Den. He found the mistress of the house at home, seated on a rustic seat, in a little grass-plot in front of the drawing-room window, with a carriage-whip in her hand, with which she was flicking the heads off such flowers as were within reach. She had evidently just come in from a drive, for she still wore her bonnet and black-lace shawl, though the former was perched on the top of her head, to keep off the sun, while the latter hung trailing down her back. She had altered in appearance, and not for the better: her eyes were unnaturally bright; her cheeks sunken, and marked here and there with hectic patches. Simnel gave his horse to a groom, and walked up the garden-path. Kate Mellon looked up at the sound of his advancing footsteps; at first vacantly enough, but when she recognised him, she roused herself, and got up to meet him.</p>
			<p>“How are you Simnel?” she said, with outstretched hand. “I was thinking of you only today, and wondering what had become of you. It’s ages since you’ve been up here.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve been very busy, Kate, and been unable to come. You know my wish is to come as frequently as possible; oh, you needn’t shake your head, because you are quite certain of it; but that’s neither here nor there. I keep to my portion of the contract, and shall not bore you about myself until I’ve shown you I’ve a right to ask you to listen to me. And now, how are you, and what are you doing? To tell truth, I don’t think you look very bonny, young woman: a little dragged, eh? End of the season, perhaps?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m all right!” said Kate, hurriedly; “never better in health, and jolly; that’s the great point, isn’t it, Simnel, eh? I’m learning to look after number one, you know; and when you can do that, you’re all right, ain’t you? Have some lunch? No? then look here; I’ve got something you must taste⁠—some wonderful Madeira. Oh, all right; I know it’ll put some colour into your cheeks, and do you good.”</p>
			<p>She called to a passing servant, and the wine was brought⁠—rare old tawny, full-bodied, mellow Madeira⁠—such wine as is now to be met in about a dozen houses in the land, and utterly different from the mixture of mahogany-shavings and brandy which is sold under its name. Simnel poured out two half-glasses; but Kate took the decanter from him, filled her glass to the brim, and nodding to him, drank off half its contents.</p>
			<p>“Ah!” said she, with a long-drawn inspiration; “that’s the stuff! No nonsense in that, you know; doesn’t pretend to be what it isn’t, and can’t deceive you. Tom Gillespie sent me a lot of that: found no end of it in the cellars of his old uncle, the East-India Director, whose tin he came in for. I find it does me good, steadies my nerve, and gives me fresh life. What are you shaking your head at?”</p>
			<p>“It’s dangerous tipple, Kate. I don’t like to hear you talk like that. Your nerves used to be as strong as steel, without any steadying. I say, Kitty,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel with a grave face; “you’re not giving way to this sort of thing for⁠—”</p>
			<p>“For what?” interrupted Kate, with a discordant laugh; “for comfort? Oh, no, thank you; I don’t want that yet: I don’t want to drown my sorrows in the bowl. I haven’t got any sorrows, and I shouldn’t do that with them if I had. By the way, Simnel, how is that affair going on⁠—you know what I mean? You promised to let me know.”</p>
			<p>“I believe it stands very much the same as it did,” said he.</p>
			<p>“Then it hasn’t worn out yet? he isn’t tired of it, eh?” she asked eagerly.</p>
			<p>“No; it still goes on.”</p>
			<p>“You promised to tell me the woman’s name, Simnel; why haven’t you done so? You pretend friendship for me, and then you keep things from me that I ought to know; and you don’t come and see me, and⁠—There, I don’t believe in you a bit!”</p>
			<p>“I keep things from you until the proper time for you to know them. I don’t come and see you, because all the leisure time I have had has been devoted to your interests; and, by the way, Kate, that brings me to the occasion of my present visit. I suppose you give me credit for sincerity⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, ah; well, what then?”</p>
			<p>“I mean that you believe in me sufficiently to think that any step I should take, any question I should ask, would not be out of mere idle curiosity; but because I thought they would be beneficial to you?”</p>
			<p>She nodded her head, and stretched her hand towards the decanter; but seeing Simnel frown, she stopped short, took up the whip which lay close by, and commenced flicking the flowers again.</p>
			<p>“I want to ask you about your people,”⁠—the girl started;⁠—“who they are; where you came from; what you know of them.”</p>
			<p>“You know all that fast enough⁠—from Yorkshire⁠—you’ve heard me say before. What more’s wanted to be known? I pay my way, don’t I, and who does more? I’m not required to show my christening certificate to everyone that wants a horse broke, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“What a fiery child it is!” said Simnel. “No one has a right to ask anything at all about it⁠—I least of all; but I think⁠—and I am not sanguine, you know⁠—that I shall be able, if you will confide in me, to help you very greatly in the most earnest wish of your life.”</p>
			<p>“Stop!” exclaimed Kate; “do you know what that is?”</p>
			<p>“I think I do,” said Simnel, looking at her kindling eyes, quivering nostril, and twitching lips.</p>
			<p>“If not, I’ll tell you; I don’t mind telling you: revenge on Charles Beresford! revenge! revenge!” and at each repetition of the word she slashed savagely at the tall flowers near her.</p>
			<p>“Well, I think I might say I could help you in that,” said Simnel quietly; “but you must be frank. You know I’m a man of the world; and I’ve made it my business to go a little into this question. So now tell me your life, from the first that you can remember of it.”</p>
			<p>“You’re a cool hand, Simnel but I know you mean running straight, so I don’t mind. First thing of all I can recollect is being held out at arm’s length by Phil Fox, as the child in his great trick-act of Rolla, or the something of Peru. The circus belonged to old Fox, Phil’s father; and I used to live with the Foxes⁠—the old man and woman and Bella Fox, and Phil and his wife. Bad lot she was: had been a splendid rider, but fell and broke her leg; and was always vicious and snappish, and that irritating, I wonder Phil could put up with her. They were very kind to me, the Foxes, and I was quite like their own child; and I played fairies, and flower-girls, and columbines, and suchlike, all on horseback, in all the towns we went circuit. I used to ask the old man sometimes about myself; but he never would say more than that I was his little apprentice, and I should find it all right some day. And so I went on with them till I grew quite a big girl, and used to do the barebacked-steed business, and what I liked better, the riding-habit and the highly-trained charger dodge, until old Fox declared there was no better rider in England than me. I was just nineteen, when he sent for me one night⁠—it was at Warwick, I recollect, and we’d had a stunning house⁠—and I found him with two gentlemen standing with him. He pointed to one of them, and he said to me: ‘Express’⁠—that’s the name he used to call me⁠—‘Express, this is the gentleman that bound you ‘prentice to me ever so many years ago. He’s come to take you away now, and make your fortune.’ I cried, and said I didn’t want my fortune made, and that I wouldn’t go; but after a long talk full of business, I saw it would be for my good, and I agreed. So this place was bought for me in my name, and here I’ve been ever since.”</p>
			<p>“And who were those gentlemen?”</p>
			<p>“That’s exactly what I can’t tell you.”</p>
			<p>“Can’t tell?”</p>
			<p>“Won’t, if you like it better. There, don’t look vexed. I’ll tell you this much, one of them was my uncle⁠—my real uncle, I firmly believe⁠—though on which side you must find out.”</p>
			<p>“And the other?”</p>
			<p>“The other I love dearer than anyone on earth.”</p>
			<p>“Dearer than you loved⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I know who you’re going to say; infinitely dearer! but in⁠—there; there’s enough of that. One thing more I’ll tell you: up to this hour I’ve never been told my father’s name or rank in life.”</p>
			<p>“And this benevolent uncle did it all? Quite like a play, by Jove! Well, I’ve not learned much; but I may be able to make something of it⁠—something that will be good for us both.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right! and now your business is finished?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, entirely⁠—no, not quite, by the way; I wanted to say one word to you on another subject. You know I’m not likely to be jealous Kitty⁠—”</p>
			<p>“So far as I’m concerned, you’ve no right to be.”</p>
			<p>“I know, of course; but still one doesn’t like these things. There’s a young man named Prescott, who is in my office. I notice that he’s constantly in your company; I’ve met you with him half-a-dozen times, and I hear frequently from others of his being with you.”</p>
			<p>“What of that?” she asked, with flushing cheek; “are you to settle my company for me?”</p>
			<p>“Not at all⁠—not at all; but I’m speaking both for your good and his. He’s a young fellow of good abilities; but he’s thoughtless and foolish, and, what’s worse than all, he’s poor. Now this riding about, horse-hiring and that sort of thing, necessarily leads him into expense; and from what I hear, he’s going a great deal too fast. I hear all sorts of things about the young fellows who are under me, and I’m told that your friend <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott is getting involved in money-matters; in fact, that he’s mixed up in bill-transactions to an amount which, for him, is heavy, with a bloodsucking rascal named Scadgers, who is one of the pests of society in general, and government offices in particular.”</p>
			<p>“Scadgers!” replied Kate; “what a funny name! Scadgers, eh?”</p>
			<p>“A good many people have found it anything but a funny name, Kitty. Now, though I don’t suppose there’s anything between you and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you trouble any more about that; perhaps you’ve never noticed that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott never is with me except when one of my pupils is there too: now do you understand?”</p>
			<p>“There was no pupil nor anyone else with you when I saw him talking to you in the Row some twelve months since; and he scuttled off as I rode up: however, I thought I’d warn you about him. He’s on the downward road, and unless he pulls up, he’ll come to grief; and it wouldn’t do for you to be mixed up in anything of that sort.”</p>
			<p>He sat some time longer talking of ordinary matters, and rattling on in his best style. In everything he said there was a tinge of attention almost bordering on respect to his companion, which she did not fail to notice, and which decidedly impressed her in his favour. Indeed, Kate Mellon never had imagined that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel could have made such progress in her good graces as he did this day. They never recurred to any serious topic until his horse was brought, when just as he was mounting she touched him on the shoulder, and said, “You’ll not forget to keep me up to the mark about that business?” then, with a half-shuddering laugh, “I’m still interested, you know, in that young man’s progress.” Simnel wheeled round and looked at her steadily under his bent eyebrows. “You shall be made acquainted with anything that happens, depend upon it. Adieu!” and he sprang to the saddle, raised his hat, and rode slowly off.</p>
			<p>“Not half cured yet,” said he to himself, “not half; and yet so savage at his slight, that she’d do him any bad turn on the spur of the moment, and repent of it instantly. She was telling truth about Prescott, I know; but it was best to break up that instantly. How lovely she looked! a little flushed, a little excited; but that only added to her charm. I didn’t like that Madeira being so handy, by the way; I must look after that. By Jove, what a fairy it is! where’s there one to compare to her? so round and plump and well put together! And if I can only square this family history⁠—uncle, eh? who the deuce can that have been? That’s an important link in the chain. And somebody she loves, too; what the deuce does that mean? Ah, well, it’s coming to a head now: another month ought to enable me to pull up the curtain on the last act of the drama.”</p>
			<p>And Kate returned to her garden-chair as the sound of the horse’s hoofs died away in the distance; and throwing herself back, and drumming with her fingers upon the little table, went off into a reverie. She thought of her devotion to Beresford; how the passion had first grown when he first knew her; how she had given way to it; and how the nourishment of it was one of the brightest phases in her strange odd life. She remembered the first time she saw him, the first compliment he paid her; the way in which his easy jolly behaviour struck her as compared with the dreary vapidity, or, what was worse, the slangy fastness of the other men of her acquaintance. And then she thought of that eventful evening when she had knelt at his feet and⁠—she dashed her clenched fist upon the table as she remembered that, and shuddered and bit her lips when she thought that a description of that scene had been given amid ribald shouts. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel had not so much share of her thoughts as probably he would have wished; but she pondered for a few moments on his eagerness to obtain particulars of her early life, and wondered what scheme he had in hand. She had a very high opinion of his intellect, and felt sure he was using it just then in her service; but she could not conceive to what end his labours were tending. And then she remembered what he had said about <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott; and her face grew a little sad.</p>
			<p>“Poor Jim!” she said to herself; “poor fellow! going to grief, is he? in debt and dropping his money, like a young fool as he is. And that nice girl, too, so fresh and jolly and countrified and innocent! Lord help us! What are you at, Kitty, you idiot why should those things give you a twinge? Steady, now; it’s not often your heart buck-jumps like that. They’ll go all right, those though, if Jim can only be put square. And that he shall be! What’s the use of my hoarding in my old stocking; it’ll never be any good to me; and so I may as well have the pleasure of helping somebody else. Scadgers, that was the name; I’ll get that put right at once. Scadgers! I wonder where he lives. However, that’ll be easily found out. Poor Jim! what a good husband he’ll make that rosy-faced girl!”</p>
			<p>What was it that made Kate Mellon’s head drop on her hands, and the tears ooze through the fingers covering her eyes? Not the thought of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott’s marrying someone else surely, for had she not resolutely snubbed his proposals? Certain it is that she remained with her head bowed for full ten minutes, and that when she looked up, her face was tear-dabbled and her eyes red and swollen. She took no heed of her appearance, however, but walked into the house, and pulling out her gaudy blotting-book, she scrawled a long letter, which, when finished, she addressed to “E. Churchill, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, <i>Statesman</i> Office, E.C.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
