<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 42</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-42" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chapter XLII</h2>
			<h3>And Last</h3>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel was very ill indeed. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Prater looked monstrous grave, and began to talk about ‘responsibility;’ so they summoned other two physicians high in esteem, who exchanged snuffboxes, and looked out of window together, and examined <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Prater’s prescriptions through a gold double-eyeglass and a pair of spectacles, and agreed that his treatment of the case was everything that could be wished, and declined to commit themselves to any opinion as to whether the patient might get better or not. Frank Churchill remaining in town until after the funeral of poor Kate Mellon, and expecting some suggestions from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel as to how and where the last rites should be performed, called on that gentleman at his chambers in Piccadilly, and discovered the state of affairs. Then Churchill, while he remained in London, took to coming every day to see <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel, and to learn whether anything was required for him; and, coming in to pay a farewell visit after he had seen poor Kitty laid in the grave, he met <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Prater, and heard from his lips that in all human probability the actual danger was past, but that it might be months before the patient would be himself again, so dreadfully had he been weakened and pulled down. So Churchill went away in better spirits, leaving his address at Brighton, in case <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel required anything done which Churchill could do for him. Indeed Frank wanted a little rest and repose. As though his own domestic worries had not been enough for him, he had had to supervise the whole of the mortuary and testamentary arrangements of poor Kate Mellon; and one other bit of business he had had to perform, of a somewhat more pleasing character.</p>
			<p>In coming back in all humility to her husband’s arms, Barbara had made no stipulations; but when, holding her clasped in his strong embrace, he was talking of her return home, she looked up imploringly in his face, and said,</p>
			<p>“Oh, if possible, not to the old street! oh, Frank, let us retrench in any way, but do let us leave that horrible neighbourhood!”</p>
			<p>All things considered, he too thought it better; and as Sir Marmaduke’s legacy had materially increased his income, he felt himself justified in looking out for some pretty suburban place, and half his days had been spent at house-agents’ offices, and in explorations of houses to which he had been remitted.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel’s illness did not concern himself alone, but reflected immediately on the Tin-Tax Office. For at that eminent establishment things had been so long dependent on the one man, that so soon as he was taken away, unmistakable symptoms of collapse began to show themselves, and it seemed impossible that the business could be carried on. For in the discharge of the business of the Tin-Tax Office the grand thing was for everybody to refer to everybody else, until the whole onus of setting the machine in gear, of supplying steam-power, and starting the engine, fell upon <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel; and when he was not there to start it, it went off in a very lame and one-sided manner. This was perceived by “one of the public,” one of those wondrous persons who, with nothing to do, are always on the lookout to see Achilles’ heel uncovered, or to spy the joints in Atrides’ armour; and the person in question, who had been overcharged eighteenpence in a matter of tin-tax, and who had received, in reply to an appeal, a letter from the Office in which the relative ignored the existence of an antecedent, and the verb positively declined any connection with the nominative case sent the letter to the <i>Daily Teaser</i>, where it was found so charming, that a leading article in the richest and fullest-flavoured style of that journal was specially devoted to it. This article was much quoted; and at the end of the week the subject was honoured by the <i>Scourge</i> with a yet more ferocious attack. The <i>Scourge</i> article happened to be read by the Treasury Secretary on Sunday morning as he was dressing, and that astute official at once saw that something was wrong. Early the next morning his private secretary called at the Tin-Tax Office and learnt of Simnel’s illness⁠—learned moreover that he had applied for six months’ leave of absence, thorough and entire rest and change being reported as absolutely necessary in the certificate. The next man, a political nominee, was worth nothing; and of the Commissioners none of them had the least notion of business save Sir Hickory Maddox, who was past his work, and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford, who had⁠—well, there was no doubt about it, all town was ringing with it⁠—gone entirely to the bad on racing matters, and was at very time in Whitecross-Street Prison. The Treasury Secretary was in a fix; he saw that the matter was becoming serious; that the Tin-Tax⁠—an important department⁠—was going to grief; that some member was safe to ask a question about the mismanagement in the first week of the session; and that therefore what he the Treasury Secretary had to do⁠—and a deuced unpleasant job it was, too⁠—was to tell the Chancellor of the Exchequer how matters stood, and wait for orders. The Chancellor of the Exchequer received the news with a very bad grace; he was a nervous man and hated newspaper-attacks; he was a strictly moral man and hated looseness of any kind. He told the Treasury Secretary that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford must be written to to resign his situation at once, or he would be removed; and he stated that he was thoroughly sick of nepotism and ‘influence’ in the choice of nominees, and that a man must be selected to fill Beresford’s berth, on whom they might really depend for the working of the department during Simnel’s absence.</p>
			<p>It was the result of these instructions that George Harding found himself in Downing Street, in obedience to a strongly-worded invitation, glaring over an old red despatch-box at the Treasury Secretary, and receiving from him the offer of that vacant berth. It was the result of his own honesty and straightforwardness that he declined it. “It wouldn’t do, Sir George; it wouldn’t do. I’m cut out for a newspaperman, and nothing else; though I deeply feel the honour you’ve done me. No; I must decline; but I know a man who would be exactly what you require; who⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Pardon me, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Harding; I was only instructed to sound you as to yourself; and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Pardon <i>me</i>, you know the man of whom I am speaking well enough; he wrote those articles on the Russian question, for which Lord Hailey supplied the material, and with which he was so pleased.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, to be sure; I recollect; what’s his name? one may make a note of him, at any rate.”</p>
			<p>“His name is Churchill. You’ll find no better clearer-headed man.”</p>
			<p>Then George Harding went away, and for the first and last time in his life exerted his influence, and requested the return of favours which he had frequently granted. He must have been well satisfied with the result of his work. Three days after Harding’s interview with the Treasury Secretary, Churchill, idling at Brighton, was telegraphed for to Downing Street. The next week the <i>London Gazette</i> contained the appointment of Francis Churchill, Esquire, to be one of the Commissioners appointed for levying her Majesty’s Tin-Tax, <i>vice</i> Charles Beresford, Esquire, retired.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beresford, pursued with the most unrelenting animosity by Scadgers, found himself opposed at every step⁠—even when, in sheer despair, he petitioned the Court⁠—and opposed so successfully, that he was remanded for two years. This period he passed in prison, and in cultivating the mysteries of racket, <i> écarté</i> and <i>piquet</i>, in the two last of which he became a great proficient. It is to be hoped that they will be of service to him on the Continent, whither, having eventually obtained his release, he has repaired; and where his gentlemanly bearing and knowledge of the world will probably enable him to earn a very decent income from the innocent young Englishmen always to be picked up in travelling.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott married Miss Murray, and, for a time, lived in London, and attended his office with great regularity. But the old squire found he could not live without his daughter, and simultaneously discovered that it was absolutely necessary that his estate should be more closely looked after than it had been. So, at his father-in-law’s desire, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott resigned his appointment, and took up his quarters at Brooklands, where he and his wife are thoroughly happy; and where he discharges his duties of shooting, fishing, and hunting, to his own and his wife’s great satisfaction. They have two sturdy children; a girl Kate, to whom <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel is sponsor, and a boy Jim, who, under the guidance of his godfather <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Pringle, is already being indoctrinated into all kinds of mischief.</p>
			<p>Dear honest old George Pringle is still single. “Time, sir,” he sometimes says to Prescott, “has bereft me of charms once divine,” laying his hand on a bald place about the size of a shilling on the crown of his head; “but I defy him. I and Madame Rachel are the only people who are beautiful forever.” He is very happy, having risen well in his office, and he still hates <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dibb with all the intensity of former years.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Simnel, after some months, came back cured of his illness, but quite an altered man; his hair had become quite white, and his back was bowed like that of a very old man. Occasionally he goes down to see his colleague <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Churchill, or to spend Saturday and Sunday with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Prescott’s family; but his ordinary life is a very quiet one, and seems divided between his office and the True-Blue Club, in the card-room of which he is to be found every night prepared to hold his own at whist against all comers.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Scadgers still pursues his trade; but I hear that he is now considering the advances of a joint-stock company, who wish to buy his business, under the title of The Government-Clerks’ Own Friend and Unlimited. Advance Company (limited), and who propose to make Jinks manager with a large salary.</p>
			<p>There is no <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Schröder now, and no house appertaining to anyone of that name in Saxe-Coburg Square. Captain and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Lyster live in a large house at Maidenhead, known to their friends as “The Staircase,” from the enormous size of the <i>escalier</i>, but really known as Wingroves⁠—a fine old-fashioned Queen-Anne mansion, facing the river, where they are thoroughly happy. Their son Fred is supposed by his parents to be a prodigy, and is really a healthy pleasant boy.</p>
			<p>Near them is a little cottage with a trim garden, passing by which in the summer you will generally see a white-haired old lady, on a rustic seat, reading a book and enjoying the sunlight.</p>
			<p>Then comes a shout, a clanging of the garden-gate, an irruption of children, wild cries of “Granny!” and the old lady is hustled away to find fruit or play at games. This is old <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Churchill, who has never been so happy in her life.</p>
			<p>And Barbara and Frank? They live close by in a charming house, with a lawn sloping to the Thames. Barbara has her brougham again; and all her old acquaintance have called on her, and expressed their delight at her husband’s good fortune with great enthusiasm. Miss Lexden, now resident in Florence, and a confirmed invalid, is perhaps the only one of her old set who has not so acted. But Barbara has not cared to renew the old connections. Thoroughly happy in her husband, doting on her three children, her chief pleasure is in her home, of which she is now the comfort and the pride.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
